# MC Mail

MC Mail delivers missed call alerts to your email address when your phone is
on silent, so you don't miss an important call when you're sat in front of
your computer.

## Why would I need it?

If you're asking this question then you probably don't need it, but anyway...

If you work in an office where you can't use your phone but do have access
to email, for example if you work in a call centre, and don't want to miss an
important call, then this app is for you.

## What information do you store?

I only store your email address, a unique identifier of your phone, and an
access code used as a password. This can be removed at any time by clicking
the unsubscribe link. If the number which called you is in your contacts then
I won't even transmit the number of the person who called you, just the name
from your address book.

Anonymous statistics are also kept so I can keep an eye on the system; your
screen size in pixels, your phone's make, the type of request you made (missed
call, register new user, check if user is valid) and the return code (internal
error, not registered, an email was sent etc).

I'm based in the UK and the Data Protection Act 1998 applies to any data I
hold, so I don't want your personal details, at all, it's too much hassle!
HTTP access logs are deleted monthly and only anonymous stats are kept. If you
don't use the app for several months your email may be deleted from the
database and you'll have to verify it again.

## Will you spam me?

I take your privacy very seriously and will never share your email with anyone.
I'm bound by The Electronic Communications Act 2000 and so can't spam you
without asking for your permission first.

The only permission I ask for is that in future if this service becomes hugely
popular, I may put a small advert at the bottom of missed call alerts. This is
because I like money.

## Please delete my information!

Every email sent by the system comes with an unsubscribe link, clicking this
link will cause your email address and device ID to be deleted from the
database. It will be like you never existed!

## dead

So it wasn't popular, and Kath got a job that wasn't in a call center and
didn't need it anymore, so I took it offline and deleted the data.
