# On software aptitude tests

Last Monday I decided to pull out all the stops and actually get a job, meaning
stop playing Minecraft, update my CV and pass it to a dozen or so agencies who
appear to exist for the sole purpose of creaming money off the top of my daily
rate. By Wednesday I had an interview lined up with a client, providing I pass a
Loadrunner exam provided by IKM Europe. Sounds like fun… let’s do this!

After four multiple-choice “which menu is this option in?” questions I’d
cancelled the test in a rage and was on the phone to the agency explaining that
I was genuinely offended that they’d rank their applicants using quantitative
measures of memory when the required skill-set is essentially qualitative and
down to problem solving. Ten minutes later I was sat pink-bottomed, my neck
wound in, reluctantly plodding through the rest of the questions.

You’re a Windows expert right? Without looking, what’s the second item up after
pressing the start button on a Windows XP machine? Okay, Linux, what’s the `-s`
in `ls -s`?

I think I counted two questions about systems diagnostics, one on paging and one
on bandwidth, which would actually judge a candidate’s ability to solve
problems, but the rest were about installation, process names and menu items.
Along with the menu questions I was expected to know whether the first parameter
to sprintf was the formatting or the destination string, the difference between
`%09ld` and `%9ld`, that LoadRunner uses `strftime` and which token means
abbreviated month name. Surely a smart person would press the F1 key every time
rather than learning C’s escape sequence mess off-by-heart.

How a score of 76 out of 100, a B+ at best, puts someone over two standard
deviations from the mean is anyone’s guess. Either most people are rubbish or
the test is measuring the wrong things. I suspect it’s a combination of both,
but more of the latter than the former.

![score](result.png)

Good job it didn’t measure punctuality and work ethic or I’d have been jobless
in the bottom quartile, spending tomorrow morning in my dressing gown with a
beard instead of suited and booted in a bank. Do razors come with an instruction
manual? It’s been a while...
