# Evolution Denial

Determinism denies the most basic facts of evolution. This, in turn, means that
computationalism is evolution denial.

## Brains and minds

Let's start with the seemingly undeniable:

* Animal brains evolved.
* Brains have minds, that is, they feel things.
* Minds evolved.

## Natural, not supernatural selection

Evolution can only select things that have an actual effect in the world.

Giraffes with longer necks are selected because they can reach taller and get
more food, or because other giraffes think a long neck is sexy. And so they get
longer and longer necks over generations.

For feelings like hunger or thirst to evolve, they also need to have an effect.
They need to actually cause something to happen. They don't get to evolve by
magic.

Feelings like fear, love, pain, joy, happiness, sadness, tiredness, excitement
and so on, they're traits of the brain just like length is a trait of a
giraffe's neck. These traits must be selectable in order for them to evolve.

And they did evolve, they evolved into the complex subjective experiences that
we all enjoy. We know that blindsight is possible, but the conscious experience
of sight is what we have. So the conscious experience itself must be selectable.

## Feeling about moving

The only way that a feeling can have any effect on the world is by changing the
behaviour of the organism. By having an effect on the actions it chooses.

Without this ability to choose, feelings can't actually do anything in the
world. They can't get more complex over generations, they can't be honed and
sharpened by evolution. Brains could evolve in a universe without free will, but
they would have no reason to feel anything. The fact that we are conscious is
proof that free will exists.

The brain can do some basic computing but it is not a computer. It's an organ
that has complex feelings about movement choices, its entire function is to have
preferences and to amplify the force of will.

It's a chooser, not a calculator.

## Determinism is constrained choice

The existence of deterministic processes does not contradict the existence of
free will. If the universe is made of stuff that follows laws, then, if you
skip the philosophical hoop jumping and Best Correctness, you end up in with
determinism.

If the universe is made of stuff that makes choices based on simple preferences,
and a system within it enters a cycle where strongly preferred choices exist,
then the system will naturally become deterministic.

That is to say, determinism works as a subset of free will, it's something that
emerges due to constraints on choice.

Free will can't emerge in a deterministic system.

Given that we know that brains with minds evolved (because we are them), and we
know that free will exists (because brains with minds minds evolved), then to
argue that we live in a deterministic universe is to deny the fact of evolution.

## Software consciousness is mysticism

There is no choice a piece of software can make that will change its outputs,
because it exists in a deterministic system. We have structured the silicon in a
way where its choices are constrained so it chooses to flip logic gates and run
our programs.

For software to be conscious, you need to not only deny evolution, but believe
in mathematics as the grantor of souls.

This is akin to a religious belief, it's supernatural woo that is given far too
much credence.
